# Empirical-Method-in-Finance-Assignment-3
This report consists of two different parts. In the first part, we discuss three differ- ent types of GARCH models (GARCH, EGARCH and GARCH-GJR) to estimate the time varying volatility of the log-returns of three different time series (S&P 500, BCOM Commodity index and Apple). GARCH models allow us to perform a time-varying volatility estimation, as well as to take into account persistence in volatility. These are particularly interesting features of volatility that are present in empirical data. In addition to the standard GARCH model, we are using two extension, EGARCH and GARCH-GJR which allow us to take into account the asymmetry of volatility. In the second part, we are using the famous Heston and Nandi model to price call op- tions on the S&P 500. This model allows us to take into account time varying volatility in the pricing of the calls. Using a time varying volatility model is important when it comes to option pricing because we know that empirically, volatility is indeed time varying. Thus, this kind of models offers a more precise estimation of the price of options than standards model like Black-Scholes or the Binomial Model who assume constant volatility.

In the first part of the report, we focus on an equity index, a commodity index, and a single stock. For all of them, we collect daily data of the last 10 years. In the second part of the assignment, we focus on the S&P500 and expand the time span as we collect the price series (daily) from 1989 until 2021.
